[Music]
you have a d.a
he doesn't talk about when they convict
you
or how they convict you he's talking
about how he's going to kill you
he don't give a damn if you're innocent
he don't give a damn if you're guilty
he's talking
about killing you
[Music]
prosecutors in dallas have said for
years
any prosecutor can convict a guilty man
it takes a great prosecutor to convict
an innocent man
joseph mcbride is an accomplished
professor journalist film historian and
author
he's the author of 20 books including a
new book which came out in june entitled
how did luvich do it about ernst luvich
a famed hollywood comedic film director
he's also the author of what we're going
to talk about today
into the nightmare my search for the
killers of president john f kennedy and
officer jd tippett
mr mcbride became prominent nationally
in 1988
for uncovering an fbi document from j
edward hoover
listing george h.w bush as a member of
the cia in contact with anti-castro
cubans
at the time of the kennedy assassination
a finding
that has been basically like an
earthquake in changing the way that
people understand the history of the
bush family
so i'm very pleased to have you here
thank you very much for agreeing to talk
today
thanks for having me it's good to be
here thank you
uh so one of the things i really admired
about your book
was the way that you filled in the
details not just of the assassination
and the murder of jd tippet which you
did so well there but also the way that
you
painted the details of tibbetts life
and about life and dallas at the time so
i'm really hoping that we can
focus some on these things because i
think it's important
to understand uh not just
why these things happen in dallas but
maybe
why it was dallas was the particular
place where this kind of thing
uh could have happened um
you had a call i think it's it's
important that the setting was dallas it
could have been other cities there
there's evidence that there was a plot
to kill kennedy in chicago on november
2nd 1963 that was foiled
and some evidence of possible
plots in tampa and miami a few days
before the assassination but it took
place in dallas
dallas was a very right-wing
city by and large and had a very corrupt
police department
and da's office and so that was the
perfect setting for
covering up the crime and and the
involvement of the police department as
well in the crime
right right an interesting thing that
you wrote about
in the book was district attorney craig
watkins who
i forget the date that he was elected
but he was the
first african american district attorney
of dallas
and part of what he did was uncover
uh a lot of the people that district
attorney henry wade who obviously is
famous for
all of the interviews that we see of him
uh basically calling oswald guilty
so tell us a little bit about what craig
watkins found of what kind of
district attorney henry wade was yeah
watkins was
d.a from 2007 to 2015
unfortunately no no longer in that
office he's a
lawyer but um he was he set out to
uh try to exonerate people who had been
falsely convicted under henry wade's uh
jurisdiction wade was a long time d.a
he was the d.a during the kennedy
assassination i had a
really interesting interview with him
quite revealing actually
and um he's he's also famous for the roe
versus wade
abortion case he's the weight in that
case who was
um the opponent of the woman who was
trying to get an abortion
uh but he was he's a former fbi agent
and a very interesting man
but very corrupt um his office
had railroaded many innocent people and
sent them to
uh to be executed or put away in prison
for a long time and watkins
came in and one strange thing wade did
was he preserved dna evidence on a lot
of his cases
and that enabled watkins to re-examine
cases and he'd freed about 300 people
who had been
in prison that's you know it's a
horrible miscarriage of justice but he
was correcting
a lot of the flaws and it was great
but in the kennedy case wade was uh
as you say he gave uh uh infamous
press conference on the sunday night
after oswald was killed a televised
press conference you could watch it on
youtube where he was
laying out the case against oswald but
he seemed
unsure of a lot of the details and
confused
if you want to look at it that way about
some of the evidence
or as oswald called it the so-called
evidence he told his brother don't
believe this
so-called evidence um and i found that
you know so much of the what was put
forth as evidence in the case is just
false or
misleading and you have to re-examine
everything very critical you can't take
anything at face value in this case
which is a good thing for researchers in
a way because
it forces you to not take uh things
because of some authority figure tells
you to
believe this or that you have to really
research every
detail and every fact and uh so a lot of
what uh
wade said uh was uh way off the mark
and uh what i found out basically i
interviewed him and jim lavelle who was
the detective who was the lead detective
in the uh tippett murder
took place the same day as the
assassination
within about 39 minutes after kennedy
was killed tibbett was killed
the two of them in their interviews
basically
admitted to me that a lot of the case
against oswald was very shaky
and they wouldn't quite come out and say
they had no case but
um that that was the the strong uh
implication of what a lot of what lavell
told me and he was
he was trying to cover some things up
but he's he's an interesting man he's
still alive
he's in his 90s but he would uh reveal
certain things side the feeling he was
trying to kind of tell the truth about
certain
subjects but i had to question him
carefully but basically what he said was
um he was told by wade's
weight in his office that friday that
they didn't really have a case on oswald
for calling kennedy so we better
get him on killing tippet and uh
you know the typical case one reason i
studied it so for
decades in my book into the nightmare
was i thought it was a
under investigated part of the case the
warren commission hardly
looked into it and um the house select
committee did
some investigation but not not enough
and very little was written about it
over the years and so i thought well
here's an interesting uh
revealing facets of the case david
bellen who was one of the
warren commission attorneys said it was
the rosetta stone for understanding the
assassination and i think it is
although in a different sense from what
he meant he meant
that it shows that oswald did it
but there's an illogic to a lot of the
presentation because one of the
arguments is well he shot a policeman
he was fleeing you know he must have
been guilty of killing the president and
that doesn't
logically make sense because you could
kill a policeman and not have killed the
president you know
there are many reasons why if he did
kill the policeman which i don't think
he did
um you know one doesn't prove the other
right
and uh but that was kind of the
emotional logic that they were selling
to the public that
why else would he kill this policeman he
was fleeing from
the assassination he was panicking he
was trying to get away
and he shot this innocent policeman etc
and and the public pretty much bought
that for a while
um but they really didn't have much of a
case
at all on him for the tepid murder and i
asked lavell i said well
what did you have why did you think it
was a better case he said well we had
witnesses
and they had some witnesses but one of
the strange things about the case is
the witnesses really disagree very
sharply on the tipit murder
it's like the japanese classic film
rashimon where people are giving
different views of the same
incident it took me a long time to try
to sort these out and it's very complex
but
there were some witnesses who said
oswald did it and then there were
witnesses who said
two men were involved and
they would not identify oswald and
uh they identified people who
had different appearance like short a
short stocky man with
curly hair it said uh oswald was
a lean uh young man it was not stocky
and um
he was balding so anyway there was a
wild discrepancy of
uh descriptions of the suspect or
suspects
and a lot of the physical evidence just
doesn't hold up i mean to me
the bottom line in the case is that the
ballistics evidence does not
convict oswald in fact it exonerates him
and you can't have a murder case without
ballistics evidence unless unless the
person confesses which
oswald did not confess to the crime he
denied both crimes
and so the the the ballistics evidence
the
uh bullets and the shells don't uh
link up to oswald's alleged gun that he
allegedly had and
even that is in dispute and uh there was
an fbi witness who was an honest man who
who said he couldn't link the uh the
the shells and the bullets to the gun
you know and i mean that's the whole
case really basically
um and one of the key the key witness
the warren commission relied on was a
woman named
helen markham who was a waitress who was
on her way to work and she claimed she
saw the shooting
and she was hysterical at the scene and
then they took her to a lineup and she
was actually passing out with
panic and she had to be given smelling
salts and things and then
jim lavelle was kind of taking care of
her trying to get her to
identify oswald and she she wasn't
really
telling telling them what they wanted to
know and uh
she gave a time for the shooting which
by itself would exonerate us well that's
that's another one of just basic facts
about the shooting that
oswald was seen at his rooming house
about nine tenths of a mile away at
about 103 or 104 and the warren
commission said the shooting took place
around uh
well they gave i think 115 was the time
they gave
but other witnesses said it was closer
to 110 or 108 or 109
and oswald couldn't have made it from
his rooming house
by walking you know if you'd been there
at 103 to 104 and then
gotten there in time at 108 or 109 to
shoot the policeman
uh and nobody saw him running or
anything and the only way he could have
gotten there
that fast was being driven and nobody
has any evidence that he was
driven to the scene and um
also there is there was a witness at the
theater where he was captured
a while later uh butch burroughs who was
a concessionaire at the
at the theater who said that oswald came
in uh
shortly after one o'clock and uh sat
down bought some popcorn and was
watching the movies and
so he you know he wasn't even there
according to this witness
so there are all kinds of anomalies in
the case it's a very very mixed up case
and
the the other thing i will say and
there's so much you could say about
tibit but
they basically stopped investigating the
tippet murder
within two days once oswald was shot
they basically dropped the investigation
they claimed they continued
you know looking into it but they really
didn't and it's kind of shocking when
you think that a
policeman is shot and his fellow
officers don't even
bother trying to solve the crime and
they pinned it on this
innocent guy and um
you know they in in the thin blue line
the euro morris documentary which is
very redolent of the tippet case
although it's about the shooting of
another dallas policeman years later but
it's
quite similar in a lot of ways and some
of the same
uh people are even involved and henry
wade
let aaron morris into his files and
that's how he proved that the guy that
they
convicted didn't do it and he was freed
but um in that case uh well
there's one one person in the film says
the attitude in the dallas da's office
was it takes a
good prosecutor to convict a guilty man
but it takes a great prosecutor to
convict an innocent man
which is really appalling but this is
this is the attitude they actually had
that you know it's great to
get somebody who didn't do it but i mean
how could you feel
satisfied if your policeman and your
fellow officer is killed and
you didn't get the right guy you know it
makes it just shows you how corrupt and
and uh and slipshod
and amoral the whole scene was there
right and that's that's an excellent
film that people should watch it because
it does show then it does show the
police relying on
uh people who obviously have
their own motives for giving evidence
it's just a really fascinating look at
and that was also
under henry wade right yeah wade um
aaron morris was down there i know him
he's
an old friend of mine and he he was
investigating
a another subject who was a
psychologist who routinely testified for
the police
or the prosecution that somebody was a
psychopath who would be uh
you know dangerous to society and they
should put him away and
send them to the you know get executed
etc
you know this guy was called uh dr death
you know he was so
so uh evil actually but while he was
investigating this
he started finding out in wade's files
about other cases and he came upon the
randall adams case randall adams was the
guy they convicted for the
killing of officer wood robert wood and
as errol says you know everybody on
death row
or in i mean by that time um
adams was not on death row his death
conviction had been uh changed to life
imprisonment but
he said it's very common for prisoners
to say they didn't do it so he didn't
take it too seriously but the more he
looked into it he realized that
it didn't add up and basically in the
film
he he through his own investigation
finds the real killer and gets him
to more or less confess on camera
actually in a
tape recording and it's quite remarkable
and
that film freed adams after he'd been in
prison for a long time
so it's a you know a a great example of
uh how they how they operated in the
dallas da's office and
it's a similar looking case you have a
policeman
out in a kind of you know isolated area
and he gets shot and
you know these witnesses who make up
stories
and uh you know the witnesses are a very
corrupt bunch of people and some of them
did it for the money etc you know
it made up stories and and uh just shows
you the laxity that went on in the
dallas
law enforcement circles in those days
well one of the
stranger figures that you talked about
was assistant
i think he was an assistant district
attorney bill alexander
right and he specifically was
he claimed to have actually lied to the
fbi
right during the investigation about
important things
but to go into him he was a he was a far
member of the minutemen the far right
organization uh i mean
this will kind of bring us into the
dallas police connection with that yeah
bill alexander was a really uh
flamboyant and
kind of deranged character who was one
of the deputy da's and uh
wade sort of enjoyed having him around
but he he
realized he was a loose cannon he had to
fire him eventually because he advocated
hanging
chief justice earl warren actually he
was that kind of a
far-right extremist and he was involved
in the investigation of the
tippet case the kennedy assassination
and the ruby case
and uh i did get an interview with him
on the phone and he
was fairly forthcoming but then he for
some reason wouldn't
talk to me anymore and but he's given
other interviews
uh you know he he he openly
expressed contempt for president kennedy
and
and he said something like you know he
came down here he got his ass wiped on
here you know like who cares
i mean you know a lot of the dallas
police were
rabidly anti-kennedy and racist
and even clams members i a ku klux klan
members i interviewed one
retired detective who was a detective at
the time who was a friend of tibbett
named morris brumley and while we were
talking he showed me his ku klux klan
membership card he pulled it out of his
wallet and showed it to me
i had my tape recorder right there and
he was
boasting about being a member of the
clan and he claimed he had infiltrated
the clan for the dallas police
and um i later told that to another
researcher in dallas and he
kind of laughed he said well infiltrated
the client about three-fourths of the
klan were dallas policemen you know
and then he talked about acts of
violence that they committed against
black people and
uh you know i tried when you get when
you do an interview and somebody says
something shocking you
try to just listen and encourage the
person to keep talking and i finally
just
kind of had to say something and i said
uh
did you ever when you're infiltrating
them did you ever you know try to arrest
any of them for these crimes or report
them and
he clammed up unfortunately at that
point um
but that was kind of the atmosphere
there and uh
so alexander was connected with a lot of
there were a lot of right-wing people
who were connected uh
general edwin walker was a famous
right-wing extremist who lived in dallas
and he was he was friendly with
alexander and
a lot of them hung out at this place
called austin's barbecue which was near
it was across the street from the police
substation where tippett was based and
a tip at work there is he moonlighted in
a couple places to make extra money and
one of them was austin's barbecue and so
he was working in this hotbed of
right-wing extremists
and he had ample opportunity to be
known to them to be recruited into the
plot so what i
found out about tibbett and a lot of
people from the very beginning
wondered was tippett somehow involved in
the conspiracy
or what was he doing there he was out of
his district
questions were raised from the very
beginning
but they were kind of stifled in the
media the media really didn't pursue
them much but
some people speculated he was out to
capture or kill oswald and i found out
that's what he was doing
i interviewed um tippett's father edgar
lee tippett who had
really never been interviewed except by
the fbi and uh
he was very outgoing friendly guy
and he told me that mrs tippett jd's
wife or widow marie told him that
soon after the assassination and the
murder of her husband
another policeman came to visit her to
tell her what had happened
that day and he said that jd and i were
sent out to
to get oswald to pursue him
and it's not clear whether they're
supposed to capture him or kill him but
i think there was evidence that the
police
would have killed as well if they had
the chance at the theater so it's likely
that
these guys might have killed oswald if
they had encountered him
and this policeman told mrs tippett that
he said i got into a traffic accident on
the way and i didn't make it
in time and jd made it he got killed
and he felt guilty about that and that
was quite a
quite a revelation and it jibed with a
lot of other evidence about tippets
strange movements around oh cliff and
the other policeman i
realized was uh william mensel who was
the policeman who was actually assigned
to that district
and uh mensah i also found out there was
there was an auto accident up uh
about two blocks away right around that
same time
uh and mensah was the officer who was
sent to the scene of the accident
and he cleared the accident i think in
four minutes which is
bizarre because if a policeman is sent
to an auto accident
you know you can't clear it in four
minutes you have to take down license
numbers and talk to witnesses and find
out what happened to the car and it just
doesn't make any sense
um so i i wonder if mental actually had
the accident
that he was reported to have you know
covered
but anyway so that's what they were
doing they're out to get
oswald specifically and that proves that
they were in on a conspiracy because
um officially oswald was not known to
the dallas police until he was arrested
in the theater which took place about 1
52 p.m
and even then they didn't they didn't
know
his identity because he had two
different forms of id on him
and he wouldn't tell them who he was so
they didn't
prove you know who they thought he was
until they took him downtown to the
police
station you know like a 210 and so
um when tepid and mental were sent after
oswald
shortly after the assassination which
took place at 12 30 the
uh you know they that's very suspicious
because
they were told to be looking for a guy
who was not officially known to the
police but
the police knew who oswald was they they
were uh
surveilling him and and they they knew
of his presence in town etc
and a lot came out about that
so at all it all ties together that
tippett was involved in
some kind of illicit activity there
trying to get oswald and i i believe he
he
he drove into a trap and he was shot and
it gets kind of murky there because i
don't claim to know everything about it
i mean i
studied this for uh you know 31 years
but it's it's still
there are elements that are still
mysterious it's a cold case it's hard to
get the whole truth about a cold case
but
it seems that there was another police
car
on the scene and this wouldn't there are
witnesses who said there was a car in
the alley
tip it pulled up right in front of an
alley between
two houses and um
allegedly confronted somebody and uh
there was a police car there and and a
witness said that
somebody came from the police car
direction and shot tippet in the head
after he was shot by this other guy
he was on the ground and somebody shot
him in the head to make sure he was dead
and looked at him and then went back
toward the alley and then this other man
ran off
in another direction and you know
that's one that's one person's well
there are a couple people who talk about
the police car but um
there are a number of people talk about
two two people involved so i think that
there was some kind of a setup there
that they wanted to
uh lure tip it into a trap and kill him
and why they did that you'd have to
speculate to some extent
it might have been as simple as they
needed an excuse
to to draw all kinds of officers into
that area
and nothing draws officers into an area
more than the shooting of a policeman
because that's
like the worst thing that they can deal
with and i actually asked
jim lavelle i said on the police radio
i noticed that they're actually kind of
fairly blase when they talk about the
president being shot
and he said that's true and and you know
you could say okay they're being
kind of professional but it seems kind
of strange but then when
they said there's an officer shot
suddenly there's all kinds of excitement
on the police radio people
more voices coming in more quickly and
people seem agitated and
alarmed and something like 30 police
cars 30 or 40 police cars went to that
area
and i said to lavell is that do you
think there was more
concern there and it kind of chuckled
and he said
he said there's an old saying that
i said what did they think of the
kennedy assassination compared to the
tippett killing
and he said first of all a policeman
shooting means more you know to
to the police department which is
remarkable considering the president
united states has just been shot but
then he said there's an old saying
uh kennedy's uh shooting with wasn't no
more than
a south dallas n-word shooting and he he
didn't use
he didn't say n where to use the actual
word
which is pretty shocking and he thought
this was kind of amusing you know this
shows the depth of
racism there and also the hatred and
contempt for kennedy
but so they got you know all these
officers descended on the scene
and uh oswald was in the theater and it
was very convenient to have all these
officers there
to arrest the suspect and um
they they might well have killed him in
the theater but he had the presence of
mind to shout i'm not resisting arrest
i'm not resisting arrest and um
i i protested police brutality etc
and there were some civilian witnesses
in the theater people who
were patrons and they took their names
and then that list is never
been introduced into evidence
unfortunately so there was a scuffle and
he got arrested but there was also an
arrest in the balcony
according to the police records and so
two people were arrested and somebody
was taken out the back
and there's a whole theory about there
were two oswalds
uh which i you know sounded far-fetched
to me when i first heard this
theory but it actually i i believe it
now because there's a book by john
armstrong called harvey and lee that is
overwhelmingly uh
proving that case that there were two
people with that identity which is
not abnormal in spycraft oswald was a
spy
and there was another person sharing the
identity
and it was confusing intentionally
that's one reason they do that
so people can be seen at the same place
or at
different places at the same time etc so
the two of them apparently had
converged in the theater and uh
both were arrested and the other guy was
arrested and let go apparently in the
back
so that's one reason why tibbett might
have been killed
but um he may have been involved in
in more depth in the plot to kill
kennedy too and i explore that
possibility although it's inconclusive
so um uh you know there's a lot going on
there with tippet and his movements
before the assassination and
at the time right after the
assassination
well you you draw a picture of him as
kind of in the center of all of these
groups partially because of austin's
barbecue
and and his other job
as well which i found and i never i've
always heard that
oh he worked at this stevens theater and
i just always heard it mentioned just
kind of offhandedly but you had a lot of
information
there first of all
yes very interesting yeah there was a
place where some organized crime
activity was going on including
prostitution and
uh you know possibly some drug
trafficking and um
and entering the world activity right
anti-castro cuban activity
yeah anti-castro cubans were uh there
and uh the man who ran the theater was
involved with the voice of america
which is a state department operation uh
which is
ana castro propaganda operation and
there were these anti-castro cubans in
oak cliff which is
the suburb where the shooting took place
there was a safe house apparently and uh
you know a number of them were around
and uh
there was possibly some drug running a
drug running and gun running involved in
during the warren commission hearings um
chief curry the police chief was asked
by alan dallas
former head of the cia he said there was
a rumor that tepid was involved in drug
trafficking um have you heard that and
curry said no i didn't
never heard anything about that but it
was interesting he brought that up and
it's just one of those strange
loose ends what's that about you know
yeah
so there's tepid was involved in a
number of
mule use they were unsavory
uh and a lot of it converged in the
in the uh austin's barbecue nexus and
for example one the guy who uh owned
austin's barbecue austin cook was
involved
in business with ralph paul who is a mob
figure who bankrolled jack ruby and was
his
you know sort of silent partner in his
nightclubs
so there's a jack ruby connection there
too you know and um
there it was kind of a small world all
these people kind of
converge in that area there
yeah no it's amazing the the connections
that you found
that draw together the organized crime
the anti-castro cubans
these far these far-right groups and
really
tip it is sitting right in the middle of
it uh
you know for whatever for whatever he
knew i also found it interesting that
you you said he had worked at the
theater for for six or seven years is
that correct
well i don't know the exact amount of
time i'd have to check into that but
it's
he'd worked at another theater too and
there were rumors about him knowing
ruby and knowing oswald those were never
proven but
uh it wouldn't be surprising if he had
some involvement with ruby
uh he certainly had some connections
there but
tepid was a kind of an ordinary
undistinguished policeman who
never got promoted in 11 years and he
was
not considered a very good policeman he
he was a war veteran who had had some
serious ptsd
and one problem he had was that he
couldn't look people in the eye he had
this kind of
nervous condition where he would look
away from people which is
potentially fatal for a policeman and
people worried about that
and that could help account for how he
got shot you know if you're not looking
at somebody they can shoot you more
easily and
uh he also he had two homes
which is kind of unusual he made only
about 400
a month from the police department so
but he had two homes
and um uh he had these extra jobs
supposedly to help pay for these homes
and uh
he also had a mistress on the side i
mean he was considered sort of a ladies
man
all this was kind of hushed up at the
time because it didn't look good they
tried to make him into a hero
and i interviewed his mistress johnny
maxie witherspoon who gave me a
very candid interview about their
relationship
and she said they had broken up soon
before the assassination
there were rumors that she was pregnant
with his
child and
she was she did get pregnant uh
soon before the assassination and she
had a child in the spring of 64.
but she denied to me that it was
tibbetts child
and she had an ex-husband who was
jealous
who she had broken up with and he was uh
stalking them and there there's a theory
that some people have that the
ex-husband
actually shot tepid and had nothing to
do with the assassination and i
i think i disproved that i mean i tried
to investigate that as much as i could
um it seems uh unlikely
she didn't think it was the case and um
she said she wasn't there you know like
some people thought
he was in oakland to see her and she
said that
she didn't see him that day she was she
was home
she was a little vegan where she was so
that was one of the things that's
interesting when you interview somebody
and they're not
forthcoming in some areas she i couldn't
pin her down and where she actually was
at the time of the shooting which i
thought was kind of odd
um so there may be more going on there
but
i don't think her husband did it and
partly because
there's a lot of evidence that tibbett
was rushing around oak cliff looking for
somebody
he was waiting at the viaduct nearby
it's right near oswald's rooming house
there's there's a viaduct that goes
to downtown you can see the downtown
area
if you sit there at this viaduct there
was a gas station and
it's a five minute drive across the
viaduct to
the downtown area and tepid was sitting
in his police car he was seen by various
witnesses
and waiting for somebody
possibly a bus or a cab with oswald and
it didn't come by so he took off at a
high rate of speed about 12 45 and was
racing around and
he radioed in his his whereabouts a
couple times and
shortly after one o'clock he stopped a
car
a few blocks from where he was shot and
pulled this guy over and
looked in the back seat of the car and
then he
didn't see anybody and he ran back to
his car and took off his
mysterious behavior and then he ran into
a
record store on jefferson boulevard
which is again near the shooting
place and he ran in there and he
commandeered a
telephone and that place is still there
you can still see the telephone and he
made a phone call
uh just a few minutes before he was shot
and there was no answer
or nobody said anything and the
witnesses said he just
you know stood there and listened or
whatever and then took off again
so he was looking for somebody or he was
getting and or he was getting directions
so that doesn't quite match the idea
that a jealous husband just happened to
shoot him you know
well yeah hell of a coincidence that's
for sure yeah
and the husband was allegedly on his way
to work in a different part of town at
the time
uh and not to be um out done with all
those connections he was also
the tippets were also close friends with
the mathers
uh is am i right on that and he was uh
mr mather i think his first name book
was
collins radio yeah that's a whole
interesting side of the case which we
don't know the whole story there and
i'm sure it's you know a lot more needs
to be known
collins radio was a heavily defense
in industry connected radio company that
supplied the radios for example for air
force
ii and radio equipment for the army in
vietnam
and all kinds of high-level top secret
things like that and there was a man
named carl mather
who worked for them they had a plant
near dallas
and he was a friend of the tippets he
had lived nearby i guess
it could be explained by the fact that
they were neighbors but it's kind of an
odd connection for
a you know kind of obscure policeman to
be
connected with this guy who's sort of a
high level
uh security clearance kind of person
with
that kind of government operation going
on
and anyway mather was
his car was seen soon after
the um tippett shooting in in
oakland and a witness said he saw oswald
in the car
which doesn't make a lot of sense
because oswald was at the theater but
the witness
who had been a former law enforcement
person took down the license number and
it was traced to carl mathur
and the car took off and a reporter who
later became mayor of dallas
investigated this and uh you know some
some credible people investigated this
and so bathurst car was around uh oh
cliff
at that time what was he doing there and
then the mathers arrived at the tepid
home soon after the shooting to comfort
mrs tippett
and this is all very strange connections
you know and then
years later when the housewife committee
tried to interview mather
he said he would give an interview but
he insisted on immunity from prosecution
which is peculiar
and they actually gave it to him that
you can you can see the letter
and and yet we don't know what he said
to them because those records have never
appeared
so something very strange was going on
with mather i mean some people have
speculated maybe they were
operating communications for the plot
you know to
uh help coordinate all these people's
activities
at the time or we really don't know the
whole story there
just uh there's a there's a few other
things to talk about but um
just in regards to tippet in your final
conclusion
uh what did you feel kind of
i mean i know you may have to speculate
but what did you what did you feel
uh what finally was was his role in in
everything
well one one area that i investigated
but it's inconclusive
is um there was a you know the grassy
knoll
uh there were there were probably two
shooters on the grassy knoll and a
shooter in the texas school book
repository and probably somebody in the
daltech
building it was a triangulated fire
and i think there was a shooter behind
the wooden fence
and there was a shooter behind the
concrete retaining wall
the on the grassy knoll and
witnesses and and photographs show that
there was a man in the policeman's
uniform
uh behind the retaining wall which is
right
near looking down on where the car
passed where kennedy was
being driven and
so apparently a dallas policeman fired a
shot
or somebody dressed as a dallas
policeman and there are seven
photographs that show this
figure and um
so you have to wonder who is this and i
began wondering
could this be jd tippett could this be
the reason why he was eliminated
because it is strange that you know 39
minutes later
miles away this policeman gets killed
for no
really you know apparent reason and um
i mean it is remarkable somebody said
sarcastically the dallas
police did great work by uh capturing
the assassin
within an hour you know actually it was
let's see 152 so it's like an hour and
22 minutes after the kennedy
assassination but tepid was killed
39 minutes after kennedy so if if
tibbett was involved in the shooting of
kennedy
it would have been very convenient to
have all three of them killed within an
hour or so
kennedy typing in oswald and they would
have wrapped up the whole case
and looked look like heroes but it
didn't really work out because
oswald was allowed to live
and so then they had to have him killed
in the police station which was a real
messy
thing to do but i couldn't prove that
tepid was
the grassy novel shooter one reason is
that his wife gave him an alibi that he
was home for lunch
and her story kept changing though over
the years she told many versions of it
that don't quite jibe
and i couldn't get an interview with her
i tried to and she didn't reply
and then after the book was published
she
she appeared in public at the sixth
floor museum in dallas with her children
surviving children two children
and so i flew to dallas to try to get an
interview with her and i went up to her
after the
event and she seemed very friendly i
introduced myself told her
written this book and she seemed very
nice
and i said could i interview i'm here in
town briefly can i see you tomorrow and
she's
she said yeah i would be happy to do
that and then
uh this policeman came over who was her
minder kind of
and i've been told that she's always
been surrounded by the dallas police who
keep a close eye on her and uh
you know protect her etc or whatever the
protector
and controller and this guy came over
and said
who are you i'm you know i'm in charge
of her schedule
so i gave him my card he gave me his
card and he said well we'll work it out
we'll get back to you of course he never
got back to me and
so she was willing to give an interview
and she didn't because of this guy and
then so i went over and i talked to
tippett's son curtis who was a very
friendly nice
fellow we were having an interesting
talk the same policeman came over and
literally
yanked curtis by the arm and pulled him
away from me is
bizarre um so i was hoping to try to uh
quiz mrs tippett further in at lunch
because her stories
kept changing and the times kept
changing and there was a woman across
the street who um
a neighbor who was quoted in another
book on tippett
um as verifying the tibbett came home
if he was home for lunch he wouldn't
have been the shooter downtown because
there's no way he could have done both
you know
it's a considerable distance so this
woman said yeah i saw him leaving home
and
etc etc so i interviewed her and uh
i broke down her story and it really her
story doesn't
uh hold up at all it's
you know she really i i think she was
confused and i think she was
mixing up seeing him in a different day
with that day her story
a lot of elements of her story don't
make any sense at all
so um it's still kind of an open
question to me whether
tibbett really was home for lunch or
whether his wife was giving him a
convenient alibi
so i think the the available evidence
shows that
he was part of the operation
soon after the shooting they wanted to
eliminate oswald
so they sent tippett and william mensel
after him
hoping they could get into a gunfight
with him or shoot him down
on some pretext which wouldn't be hard
for policemen to
to make up as weak as we know you know i
mean happens all the time in
dallas and other places and then they
would look like heroes you know
gunning down the so-called assassin and
they
could easily frame just as they tried to
do
but a lot of the framing you know fell
apart because the public when they
started looking into the case
the independent researchers started
studying it
and by 1966 uh people were
seriously doubting the official version
i you know the first day
i was a high school student i ran to a
radio and i heard a good shot and i
listened to
the news reports and from about 12 40
onward
they were saying kennedy was shot from
the front
they said the shots were fired from a
hill in front of him or from
the railroad bridge and it was until
about one o'clock they started saying
the shots
came from behind and i registered the
fact that this is peculiar that now
they've changed the direction of the
shots
and if they had some explanation of it
maybe i would have believed it but i
think
you know an alarm bell went off in my
head i was already a newspaper reporter
as a kid and my parents were reporters
so i kind of knew how
you know what questions to ask so i was
suspicious and then when i saw as well
on television denying
he had done anything i believed him and
so from the first day
i was skeptical but then like a lot of
people i was convinced by the warren
report i thought oh this
that seems thorough etcetera you know
i really didn't think about it too much
for the next couple years until books
started coming out like mark lane's
rushed to judgment and sylvia mar's
great book
accessories after the fact and uh i
didn't read these books at the time but
i
i knew about them from press reports and
things and so i started
re-examining the case and then by the
end of
66 i wrote a letter to a local newspaper
in wisconsin saying i didn't believe
the warren report anymore i was back to
being skeptical
and then i started you know doing the
research reading the books and
but it wasn't until the 70s when i
really started
reading about it in earnest i think
watergate helped open my mind because i
was so obviously a conspiracy
and it revealed that the dark underbelly
of our society and how
how things really happen and criminal
activities
on the highest level and a lot of the
same players were involved so i
began studying it in 82
um i began my own investigation in
earnest
and over the years i would do all i
could to
i mean i was reading books on it
counseling and reading documents going
to the national archives
in those days you know we didn't have
the internet so you had to go to the
national archives and get
xerox of documents and things and then
i'd go to dallas and interview people
and did a lot of research over the years
i was doing other things
other books and work at the same time
but
uh it's it's a long process but it took
it took a while for me to become
a skeptic again you know because the
warrant
a lot of people right
well oops certainly had the the look
of something that was you know put
together right with the hand of a lot of
high-powered people behind it but it's
actually interesting that you
you know these early critics the people
who are kind of
brave enough to to put their books out
and i think the only heroes of the case
of the uh
you know the independent researchers
especially the early ones and the
witnesses who've come
forward a lot of very brave witnesses
have come forward and said no it didn't
happen the way they
said it happened and some of them got
killed and some were
you know threatened etc but uh i greatly
admire those early researchers
and those to me it's inspiring and i
dedicate my book to those
two groups of people those are the ones
who uh you know the government
didn't investigate the crime that was
really shocking to me as as a
citizen and i wanted to be a lawyer and
become a politician
and i was so appalled that the
government would
the president of the united states gets
shot in public
on public street and they don't solve
the crime they didn't want to solve the
crime and
blame it on innocent men i was really
shocked and that changed my whole life
because i didn't want to be
i lost faith in our governmental system
and so i became a writer instead
so um it's been the independent
researchers and i'm happy to be one of
them who've
carried the ball on this case all these
years because the mainstream media have
been lying to us about this
from day one with a few exceptions
and the government has never done a
proper job of investigating it
no i agree i think it's kind of a real
expression of
you know democracy and civic action well
let's talk about one of the early
uh researchers and obviously a film
historian so
the mark lane emile d'antonio film
rushed to judgment
can we talk a little bit about that just
um do you know any of the history of it
uh how is it released uh who who got to
see it
um did it mean anything it was it's as a
film was it groundbreaking in any way
visually or anything like that yeah
i mean i knew both of them i i
interviewed
d'antonio once on television uh i got to
know him in
hollywood a little bit he's a great guy
a tremendous documentarian made a lot of
groundbreaking documentaries and
very very radical filmmaker and mark
lane i admired as
uh his book russian judgment is very
well argued he was a lawyer
and politician who took it upon himself
to investigate the case who he wrote one
of the first
articles skeptical of the case
and um he represented oswald's mother
because he felt oswald wasn't getting
represented
before the warren commission at all and
uh
he wanted to have some kind of you know
have his voice heard and elaine
testified before the warren commission
tried to
give evidence he was the only person who
publicly testified
uh because everybody else testified uh
behind closed doors and
their testimony was released later but
uh
lane was vilified by the government and
pursued by the fbi and you know all
kinds of
maligned by people his book holds up
well i mean it's it's
a lot has been learned since then but
it's it's a good breakdown of
the flaws in the case sylvia mars book i
think is the best
book in the assassination still
accessories after the fact i'd recommend
people read those shoes
again an independent researcher she
worked for the united nations but
in her spare time she would study the
26 volumes of supporting evidence
supposedly of the
warren report and she took it upon
herself for example to index these
volumes because nobody
they didn't provide an index to begin
with so she published that and then she
wrote this brilliant book
very lucid prose um dissecting all the
so-called evidence and showing how
fraudulent and
fake it all was and it reads really well
and again you know we've learned so much
since then we keep learning things
because
different researchers make discoveries
and documents come out
because of oliver stone's film jfk
millions of pages of documents have been
released since then
and there's still government documents
that are withheld as
as people probably know that they were
supposed to have been released last fall
and president trump said he would
release everything
he had the ultimate i mean there was a
law passed the jfk records act that
all the documents had to be released by
the fall of 2017.
unless the president issued an order
otherwise
based on some the agencies could object
to certain documents being released on
certain grounds
such as national security which is
always a convenient excuse and trump
uh at the last minute capitulated to the
cia and other agencies and
withheld some documents so you have to
wonder you know
one thing i say if somebody believes the
warren report
how come after what is it now 50
[Music]
how many years is it 55 years since
kennedy was shot
what's the national security excuse for
keeping parts of it secret if alone not
killed the president
it makes no sense whatsoever right you
know it's crazy and so we should have
all these documents but the cia is
protecting certain
operations and and um you know
there's a lot of people are digging into
it but
you know we'll probably never get all
the documents and a lot of things have
been destroyed over the years documents
have been destroyed evidence has been
destroyed people have been killed people
a lot of people have died
so it's an imperfect case in terms of
having evidence but you know you do your
best
to fill in the gaps there may be some
things we'll never know but penn jones
who's another my heroes he was an
old texas newspaper man who had a
small town paper outside of dallas and
he was on the case
from the first weekend although he said
he said um
i didn't realize it was a conspiracy
until sunday he said that's how naive i
was
and um but he turned up a lot of leads
and
and all kinds of information he was a
fearless
guy he was kind of a mentor of mine and
i asked him once
um you know people often say do you
think the case will ever be solved you
hear that all the time
and he said well i think i and a few
friends of mine
solved the case basically back in the
60s
you know and i did a youtube video on
the media and the assassination it's
called political truth it's in a series
called 50 reasons for 50 years you can
watch it on youtube and
all right i end with that and i end with
a clip from rush to judgment with pen
jones so they made this very low budget
film rush to judgment based on the
lane book and lane is the interviewer in
the film that goes around dallas
interviewing witnesses that they could
get to talk
and it's very uh deliberately very
simple
black and white unadorned film
it has a lot of credibility for that
reason it's not a fancy
you know gussied up production but they
got some great interviews with
witnesses who contradict the warren
report
and some of them are very powerful uh sm
holland who is a
railroad man who was on the bridge
looking down
who said he saw uh smoke coming from
shot from the grassy knoll for example
and he's
a totally credible witness and aquila
clemens who's african-american
woman who was a domestic who worked
nearby
near the near the tidbit shooting and
ran outside when the shots were fired
she saw two men
involved going in different directions
and um
she's very brave and gave this interview
and she said that she'd been threatened
by the dallas police
not to talk or something might happen to
her
and she unfortunately was never seen
again after this interview she just
disappeared off the face of the earth
and
you know it's kind of horrifying to
think of what might happen to her
what might have happened to her she gave
a few other interviews
but she was threatened you know and uh
um d'antonio said in an interview that
there was
more tension around the tippet shooting
area than
in dealey plaza when they went to dealey
plaza it was relatively relaxed and they
got people to talk and but
when they went to the tippet area and
tried to talk to people everybody was
extremely
tense and some people wouldn't talk and
some people were told by the police
don't talk to them etc and uh
he found that very interesting as i do
too
how did mark lane use it did he just
kind of show at colleges or
well he gave a lot of lectures
you know before the internet again and
uh mainstream media wouldn't
cover his activities much so he would go
around and give lectures
you know he'd rent a hall and he'd give
lectures in new york and other places
and go to colleges and
and the film didn't come out till 67 so
they had been
you know his book has been out for since
66 and uh
so i yeah he showed the film uh at
colleges and it was
shown a lot it was kind of a gorilla
production you know
d'antonio's films were not widely
distributed in the conventional way i i
saw it in a couple theaters
you know offbeat movie theaters would
show it occasionally or
college campuses you could rent these
films and uh
you know there are a lot of left-wing
films that came out in that era about
anti-war films and things like that that
that
were shown in d'antonio's work he dealt
with the vietnam war and other subjects
and
so the film got around and but you have
to be kind of resourceful to be an inter
to be a researcher in those days like to
see the zapruder film was uh not
available officially but there was a
bootleg copy of it around and i got one
in the in the uh well it was the 80s
when i got mine
and then i had to convert it to a
videotape and
studied it and you know penn jones had a
copy and he would sell
copies he actually took dan rather's
erroneous description of the zapruder
film
which says that kennedy's head went
violently forward when in fact
the film shows his head going violently
backward because he was shot from the
front and he he put
dan rather's voice over the film and he
sold
copies of that and that was many people
saw that it was shown
widely in college campuses et cetera so
there was this kind of underground
movement of
researchers and there still is to some
extent people have conferences and they
have internet forums and
uh people give speeches and they do
things like your podcast
you know podcasts are a great way to get
people talking about it and get the word
out
so there is there's a lot of people are
very interested in the case and
um one thing i find that's encouraging
i find a lot of young people are very
open-minded about it
people my age i was uh 16 when kennedy
was shot
for a long time i had trouble getting
people to talk to
me about it they wouldn't listen they
would get very tense they would
resort to name calling and you know they
just
couldn't deal with the subject but the
younger people i don't think have that
problem they just find it interesting
and
and revealing and they they're more
skeptical about government than
most of us were back in the day and a
lot of my friends and family and
people you know are still they just
believe what the government tells them
they don't want to hear anything else
but it used to get vilified a lot if you
challenge people but
you don't quite get as much vilification
as you used to and
at a certain point i realized you just
have to live with that and not worry
about that and just
you know that's their problem not my
problem but when i talk to students for
example they're very open-minded about
it
they want to see this recruiter film and
they want to see rush to judgment and
they want to
see jfk and read books about it it's
it's
it's encouraging you know it's great
um are you i don't wanna i don't wanna
you know i know your time's value but i
don't take too much of it but i would
uh if you have time you want to talk
about the george bush though
yeah sure that's that's one of my
research
um activities over the years
in in the course of my kennedy research
i was going through microfilm of 1977
78 releases on microfilm fbi documents
under the freedom of information act
they released a hundred thousand pages
of documents in those years
and apparently hardly anybody looked at
them and i was at a library and i would
you know in my spare time i would be
looking at these documents and i found
uh
in uh when was this 85
a uh the memo from j edgar hoover
november 29
1963 summarizing how he'd given a
briefing
to um or the if the fbi had given a
briefing to mr george bush of the cia
and to a couple of other people about
the
activities of the anti-castro cubans and
they were trying to find out if the
anti-caster cubans
were going to do anything in reaction to
the
assassination that was a sensible
purpose of this and i kind of thought
george bush cia i didn't realize he was
with the cia that early
but i hadn't really studied his career
that much i mean i was aware of him
because he was
vice president at the time and um
but then when he became uh when he
started running for president
in 88 i thought oh i better look into
this
so i went back into these files and i
started looking there and i started
finding more documents that mentioned
him
and i found documents
that talked about this strange incident
that
the afternoon of the assassination at 1
45 he called the
fbi office in houston where he lived
he was in tyler texas which is east of
dallas
he was running for the u.s senate
and he was calling the fbi to turn in
one of the
uh the head of the houston young
republicans whose name's
name was james parrott and he said
parrot had been threatening to kill the
president
when he came to texas and they should
look into parrot and he gave
phone number and all that he identified
himself with his address and everything
and
you know it immediately raises the
question as well if this guy had been
threatening to kill the president
why didn't you tell the secret service
before kennedy came to dallas like any
good good citizen should do uh
why wait till after it happened you know
and
so that was peculiar and i found other
documents pertaining to parrot and
harrod was a far-right guy
young guy but he was involved with a
bunch of right-wing extremists in both
houston and dallas
and i started investigating this
and so i did an article for the nation
magazine in the summer of 88 when bush
was
before he got the nomination for
president and i
i i started researching his life because
when you find out he's with the cia
in the early 60s it sheds a whole new
light on his
career because the official story was he
didn't become involved with the cia
until
gerald ford named in the director in 75
and uh in his um hearing
uh confirmation hearing he was asked do
you have any intelligence background he
said no so he lied under oath
which should have disqualified him and
also as people even at the time said how
come they're picking this guy with no
intelligence background to be the head
of the cia it doesn't really make a lot
of sense
you wouldn't do that and uh so the more
i found out i started calling people
and you know doing a lot of research and
found out that he had been with the cia
for years
as a kind of a covert operative uh
you know not a full-time agent but a
kind of
an asset and he was a businessman he was
running an oil company
that had a lot of suspicious connections
all over
the caribbean which was the big hot spot
at the time and even the middle east and
other countries and that oil
drilling apparatus in in the in various
uh ocean locales and these kind of
um oil derricks were places where
uh weapons were often stored you know
when people were trying to use them
against
castro for example and i found out that
bush was involved in the bay of pigs
operation
as part of the cia and then i found
indications that his
background in the cia might have
extended way back further into his years
at yale in the late 40s which makes
sense yale is a hotbed of recruitment
for the cia and always has been
and he was with um he was in the navy
during world war
ii he was a flyer but um
he uh may have had navy intelligence
connections and his father
prescott bush who was a senator from
connecticut was an army intelligence guy
so it runs in the family so there's this
whole
alternate history of the bush family
that started to emerge in my research
but it was very hard to
nail all this stuff down because i was
getting all this information and finding
out about all kinds of nefarious
activities that
bush had been involved in and um you
know i was one guy trying to
you know get all this information with
very little resources and um
uh you know i i couldn't nail down
everything
i was told and then later on a lot of
this
came out in various forms but i wrote
this piece and it caused quite a stir
and i was on c-span for example and got
a lot of attention and it was covered in
the associated press and the new york
times and a lot of newspapers and then
the cia
i i called them and i called bush's
office trying to get a
get a response and they wouldn't comment
and um the cia's basic
stance on these kinds of questions is
always we don't confirm or deny that
somebody's an agent you know
and but then after i got a lot of
attention for about 10 days they came up
with a story that
it wasn't george h.w bush it was a guy
named george w
bush who was also working for the cia at
the time but they didn't know where he
was
now which was kind of odd you know that
they
couldn't find a guy and um
so i found the guy pretty quickly the
defense intelligence agency actually
tipped us off
how to find him which was kind of
unusual they just
they called the nation said hey you want
to find this guy so somebody there
didn't like george bush
and um so i interviewed this other man
and he said
he was a low level map reader basically
for the cia a desk
clerk you know very young guy at the
time and he said i didn't get that
briefing
the high level briefing about the
anti-caster equipment so i ran a second
piece about that
but the media ran with bush's denial in
the cia's denial and then they
ignored my follow-up story basically
that's the way the media work in our
country that
they'll believe the official denials and
you know
they won't believe the story from the
nation the second story so that story
kind of died off and i was hoping other
people would run with it but they didn't
and i did a third story for the nation
on parrot
the man i was talking about in houston
and when i
i went to houston tried to interview him
and i
couldn't i was trying to get him on the
phone and his
wife finally came on the phone and said
the fbi had just been there and warned
them not to talk to me
and i said the fbi and she said well
either the fbi or people like the fbi
showed up at the house and said don't
talk to this guy mcbride you know
which is very interesting and um
parrot uh so i couldn't get to parrot
but i did a piece about it because i had
a lot of fbi documents he was very well
documented and i found out that
the fbi did a six-month investigation of
parrot and his friends
right-wing friends after the
assassination as part of their
investigation of the assassination and
that document was withdrawn from the
national archives
um right after bush became vice
president
which was suspicious and i i managed to
get a hold of some
related documents that gave some
indication of
how violent some of these guys were and
then um
other other documents began disappearing
like the 10k reports from the zapata
oil company the bush ran corporations
have to file these reports with the
government
periodically about what they're doing
and i went to the securities exchange
commission and
those had been withdrawn shortly after
bush became vice president
so there was a cover-up going on so i i
turned in this article to the nation
before the election and they wouldn't
run it
even though it was very well documented
and i avoided speculation
you know i just laid out the facts and
they just wouldn't run it and the editor
victor navaski said stay away from the
kennedy assassins
assassination it's the quagmire and so
they killed
the story and um i moved on to other
things and years later
um you know i incorporated this in my
book into the nightmare and
you know continue doing bush research
but finally
some people other book writers started
digging into the bush family there are a
lot of bad books about the bush family
that just repeat the official
uh bs but there's some some
books that do some actual research
including russ baker's book family
secrets which i'd recommend and his book
starts with me
finding that document at the san
bernardino
university library in the microfilm
and then that's the trigger for his book
and he he found out some things that i
didn't know for example
well it came out in 94 that george h.w
bush was in dallas
the day of the assassination he he was
in tyler
and then he flew he called the fbi and
said i'm flying to dallas
and going to stay at the sheraton hotel
overnight and the sheraton was where the
secret service and other agencies had
their
uh communications for the president's
trip to dallas including the white house
communications
and um so here's bush flying to dallas
but what
what russ found out was bush had been
there the night before
the 21st he found and i i failed to do a
simple thing i didn't look at the
newspaper for the day before
and there was a little uh item that bush
was giving a speech to a
uh an oil group on november 21st so here
he is in dallas on the 21st and then
he's
there on the 22nd and richard nixon was
there in the 22nd
and uh kennedy and johnson so you had
four u.s presidents
in dallas on the 22nd of november and
what was bush
doing there you know and russ goes into
further details about what he might have
been involved in
it seems like he was some kind of
operative in the plot against kennedy
parrot was somebody who was working in
bush's office when bush was the
gop chairman and houston he's the
chairman of the harris county
gop harris county is houston
and he turned in the head of the young
republicans it's a fairly important
position you know i mean and why did he
turn this guy in
and one of the strange things was in the
92 campaign when bush was running
against bill clinton
it came out that parrot was still
working for bush as a volunteer
in 92. now why would you work for a guy
who turned you into the fbi as as an
assassination conspirator there's
something fishy
and even though i never got to parrot a
friend of mine got to parrot and
he's he hasn't given much in the way of
interviews so there's not much known
about him except that he was a
right-wing extremist but
i mean different theories were proposed
by people i interviewed and i and i
i wrote about some of them one was that
bush was um just wasting the fbi's time
by
sending them off in a wild goose chase
of somebody who wasn't involved in
anything
but kennedy was in houston the day
before and i found evidence that
the police were extremely worried that
somebody would shoot kennedy in houston
and jack ruby was in houston the day
before and so it's conceivable that
parrot and some of his friends might
have been involved in some kind of a
plot
and we don't really know
the whole story of parrot and why bush
would turn them in and why they would
still be
friendly you know and i i tried really
hard to find out all i could and i found
out some other
odd things about him and some of his
friends but
again it was kind of inconclusive
research but something very strange you
know why you would do this
uh he was he was uh
fingering somebody for some reason and
maybe it was a way of getting himself
off the hook like why didn't he do
anything before the assassination then i
made an amazing discovery one of the
houston papers i actually looked at the
houston papers for those
that period the day of these house the
day
kennedy was in houston the 21st
on the front page of one of the houston
papers that says harris county chief
gop chief urges com and it's it was a
little interview with george
h.w bush saying everybody should be calm
when kennedy comes to
dallas and be polite and give him a nice
welcome
and then he said there may be some nuts
around who might try something but they
won't be republicans
which is a very bizarre thing to say
and i told mark lane about that and he
really was astounded and i gave him a
copy of that
there may be some nuts around but they
won't be republicans
like first of all what does he mean
there may be some nuts around and you
know the police chief was very worried
about
threats and he's saying there won't be
republicans
you know and barbara bush wrote a
autobiography in which she says among
other things that
when oswald was captured were really
glad well he wasn't a republican you
know he wasn't some right-wing nut he
was
you know alleged communist as if that
mattered you know but
um so it makes you wonder what bush was
hinting at maybe he was really worried
that parrot and his friends were
going to do something and he was trying
to deny ahead of time to
republicans or you know it's kind of
strange right well it's
why would bush i mean it's telling that
george bush would keep someone working
for him that he also
thought he had to turn into the fbi for
wanting to shoot john f kennedy
yeah why you know i mean well if you had
people working for you who were that
crazy
you would be feeling kind of in jeopardy
yourself for
you'd want to disassociate yourself from
them at least yeah
definitely um well this this was really
great uh
i was it was great to to get to kind of
look at dallas and what was going on
there and then to hear about your work
on
on george bush and i haven't seen any
interviews of you with that so that was
great and uh
and to have a film his story and talk
about russian judgment as well was
what's fantastic is there is there
anything else you want to want to add
before we go
well i rushed the judgment uh i was
gonna say answer the nightmare is a very
long bucket service 600 pages and i go
into a lot of detail about all these
things that we're
touching on and i spent a lot of time on
the
texas milieu the the right wing
extremist anti-kennedy milieu and
i do think that it's no accident that
the crime happened in
texas and in dallas in particular and
a lot of people like to deny that they
say well you know oswald was
i mean like one time i went to dallas
and i uh
was trying to find his grave and i went
to some cemetery and i said where is it
the guy
helpfully told me where he was but he
said you know he wasn't from dallas he
was from fort worth
so they like to deny that the climate of
hatred as people called it back then had
anything to do with the crime but a debt
you know the police were very corrupt
and the city government was corrupt and
we found out in the recent document
release that the mayor was
cia connected for example and
uh you know so there's a lot of detail
in my book it's quite
quite full rich and full of detail so i
think people would find it fascinating
if they're into the subject
and i have revelations about kennedy's
uh
death and you know people who might have
been
uh part of the plot against him and how
the plot was
created and carried out etc so it's
kind of it's about kennedy as well as
tip but it's also a narrative of my own
um evolution into
a skeptic and i thought it would be good
to write it as first-person accounts
starting with my
hearing of the shooting and then why i
was skeptical and then
gradually evolved in
into a critic and started to do my own
research and what i found and you know
it's it's quite a saga i think
so i think people will find it
interesting you can get it from amazon
it's only sold to amazon
no i absolutely agree i think especially
for
uh young people who weren't alive at
that time to get to watch
because it really did change the country
the period between
kennedy's assassination and then as you
mentioned kind of the aftermath of
watergate
just the outlook of people is just so
completely different to watch your
progress through life is is very
interesting i think especially for
younger people who didn't experience
that it'll be really really fascinating
so
i definitely recommend you to read it
well yeah i do think it was a military
coup
that took over our country and um penn
jones in his later years uh
had alzheimer's and and i would see him
and he he would only basically say one
thing he just kept repeating one thing
he would say they they like what they
got and they ain't never going to give
it back it kept repeating that it was
sort of like
the distillation of his entire life's
wisdom into one line and it was very
interesting
observation that they like what they got
and they ain't never going to give it
back so when
people try to stop wars and stop
terrible
things that happen it never seems to
work you know there's always somebody
pushing back like in woodward's new book
fear
about trump um i take it with a big
grain of salt
because woodward is a dubious source but
one thing he he writes about
he claims that trump was trying to stop
the war in afghanistan which is a
lunatic war you know and uh
he was he was prevented from doing that
by the military and other people around
him they just said you got to do it you
have to have this war etc and
he gave in you know and that's the way
it works with uh
obama came in with a lot of high ideals
and aspirations and wound up continuing
the
the the war in afghanistan and we're
still involved in iraq to some extent
and
obama widened our involvement in other
countries and you know it's just
the military runs the show the military
industrial complex that eisenhower
warned about in is farewell addressed so
it's important to understand what
happened to our country when kennedy was
killed it wasn't just some isolated
event
yeah no i think we're still if anybody
wonders why things just seem to get
crazier and crazier i think
at least at the very least you can start
in 1963.
uh do you um could you give us um
maybe film recommendations that you
think not necessarily about the
assassination but maybe about
that time period that you think uh kind
of would give people the best
the best feel i'm sure something like dr
strange loved but are there any
films yeah well yeah there's some some
wonderful movies made in the period the
manchurian candidate i think is a very
eye-opening
1962 film based on a wonderful novel by
richard condon
which is kind of a bizarre fantasy but
it has
a lot of elements of reality it's hard
to describe but it's a
about a programmed assassin and it came
out right during the cuban missile
crisis
the great movie dr strangelove a great
movie about
nuclear war that is still extremely
timely and relevant
the parallax view is a good film made in
the 70s
it's about a reporter who's trying to
investigate a killing that's like the
robert kennedy telling it's
fictionalized but it's um it's a
what they used to call paranoid
thrillers although
paranoia i always think is the wrong
word because it's just realistic
winter kills is a good film hard to find
it's kind of a black comedy about the
kennedy assassination
based on another richard condon novel
jfk oliver stone's film is is really a
basic one if anybody hasn't seen that
they should really get that right away
and look at that it's a terrific film
especially the director's cut
a lot of um really good
scenes were added and stones nixon is an
excellent film
um and there's a lot of subtext in that
film about the kennedy assassination and
nixon's guilty knowledge of certain
things about the kennedy assassination
and
it's a tragic shakespearean story quite
a
grand drama and very wonderfully done
film
and then some documentaries like rush to
judgment and um
there are other 50 reasons for 50 years
you can find on youtube
leno sanex youtube series
50 part series that he did for the 50th
anniversary it's
a lot of good short films that various
people did
i did two of them i did one in the
typical case and one on the media
and uh those are just some starters but
you know
there are a lot of those will get you
into in into the group of
studying the case i think that's great
thanks
thanks a lot thanks again for talking
and i really appreciate
it i think it was really fascinating
yeah thank you very much it's great
talking to you and thanks for all the
good questions
[Music]
this is our hidden history
my mom had a good phrase she said the
first night she pulled into dallas it
was raining
that it was lightning and they're coming
into dallas and she said if there was
ever a hell on earth at dallas county
she's right she's right
you